# Crime-Prediction-System
The increase in crime data recording coupled with data analytics resulted in the growth of research approaches aimed at extracting knowledge from crime records to better understand criminal behavior and ultimately prevent future crimes. Crime is a complex social phenomenon that has grown due to major changes in society. Law enforcement agencies need to learn the factors that lead to an increase in crime tendency. To curb this, there is always a need for strategies and policies to prevent crime. Law enforcement agencies face a large volume of data that needs to be processed and turned into useful information. 

Since crimes are increasing there is a need to solve the cases in a much faster way. The crime activities have been increased at a faster rate and it is the responsibility of police department to control and reduce the crime activities. Crime prediction and criminal identification are the major problems to the police department as there are tremendous amount of crime data that exist. There is a need of technology through which the case solving could be faster. Through many documentations and cases, it came out that machine learning and data science can make the work easier and faster. The aim of this project is to make crime prediction using the features present in the dataset. With the help of machine learning algorithm, using python as core we can predict the type of crime which will occur in an area. Visualization of dataset is done to analyze the crimes which may have occurred. This work helps the law enforcement agencies to predict and detect crimes with improved accuracy and thus reduces the crime rate.
